---
layout: post
title: Custom feature extraction from video assignments
subtitle: extract features from the videos made by children to evaluate conceptual understanding
tags: [feature extraction, vision, object recognition, text mining, OCR, deep learning]
---


**Objective:** Evaluate the videos made by children on different topics 

**Concept:** To extract features from the videos made by children in different assignments given to them. 

**Issues addressed:** Instead of only watching and playing, we at Pratham encourage kids to craft their own content and make videos on different topics. The problem is then to evaluate all those videos generated by children. We need an app to help us extract features of a video which will give an overall idea about the video and its relevance with the topic given. 

**Tech Needs:**

<table>
  <tr>
    <td>Projects</td>
    <td>Know-how</td>
    <td>Status</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Project Conceptualization - which feature skills to look for to analyse the video and what should be the labels</td>
    <td>Video Feature Extraction Expert</td>
    <td>Not Started</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data collection - develop platform to upload all videos developed by children in a single repository and then label them according to the features conceptualized in step 1</td>
    <td>Video Evaluation Expert</td>
    <td>Not Started</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Feature Engineering: Video sample filtering (if required) to transform in a format that can be used to train the ML model</td>
    <td>Video processing</td>
    <td>Not Started</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Develop and test ML Model to take video samples and corresponding labels as input and predict the corresponding features of the video</td>
    <td>Machine Learning and Deep Learning Algorithms</td>
    <td>Not Started</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Conceptualize and integrate the designed ML model with an Android app (Deployment)</td>
    <td>Android Development</td>
    <td>Not Started</td>
  </tr>
</table>


**Details:**
Kids actually love to express themselves, but sometimes they feel like they don't have much of a voice. Encouraging kids to be more of a maker is just a matter of pointing to someone or something they admire and giving them the technology to make their vision come alive. With the right tools, the child can be using that time to build creative skills while sharing their stories, opinions, and ideas. They can play around with animated storytelling apps that let them record a mini-movie with movable characters, props, and settings. Once, they make the videos they can upload it to a platform to get feedback. Having a real audience shows kids that their efforts can matter, so children can use app to get feedback on how they are doing and how can they improve on. The basic aim of the feature extraction app will be to detect faces, objects, texts (if any) in the video submitted by the child and then come up with a report of how relevant was the video with the topic.

